## Water Purity

## Description
	#This project examines data from the CDC on water quality. Water quality is assessed based upon contaminants with concentrations above recommended guidelines in Community Water Systems. The substances observed are Uranium, Arsenic, and Nitrate. The rates of this contamination are measured against demographic measurements from the US 2020 Census. The demographics studied include population, poverty rate, unemployment rate, and education level.

## Installation
	#The conclusions of this study are formatted in a slide deck and .png image files.
	
    #The data used to perform this study are in .csv and .xlsx file formats.
	
    #The files used to perform analysis are in jupyter notebook format using python. The following libraries are used: pandas, matplotlib.pyplot, scipy.stats, numpy, hvplot.pandas, and us.

## Conclusion
    #There tended to be higher contamination levels in states with higher unemployment and poverty rates.
    #In states with higher percentages of adults with less than a high school education, there tended to be higher contamination levels in their community water systems.
    #It is observed that Pacific Coast states consistently have higher levels of contamination of all 3 pollutants in their community water systems than Atlantic Coast and Non-Coastal states.

## Usage and Limitations
	#This study is intended for research and educational purposes only. It should not be used in decision making without further study and research.
	
    #CDC data was limited to only 25 states. Of those available, the states were grouped into three regions based upon ocean exposure (Pacific Coast, Atlantic Coast and Non-Coastal).
	
    #This study focused upon only a selection of harmful contaminants. There are other unexplored factors that may contribute to water quality.
	
    #This study focused only on data pertaining to Community Water Systems. Other forms of water usage were not explored.

## Files
	#EDA.ipynb
		#This file loads files from the Resources folder. These files are combined into dataframes. These dataframes are separated into data from the year 2020. This final dataframe is exported to .csv and .xlsx format files as “complete_dataframe_2020”.

	#analysis.ipynb
	    #This file loads data from complete_dataframe_2020.csv. This data is used to perform analysis. It exports findings into the “Output” folder.

    # complete_dataframe_2020.csc
	    #This is an output file from EDA.ipynb. It is loaded into analysis.ipynb to perform statistical analysis. It contains data separated by the year 2020.

    #complete_dataframe_2020.xlsx
	    #This is an output file from EDA. It contains data separated by the year 2020.

    #Resources Folder
		#This folder contains the resource files used for this analysis.

    #Output Folder
		#This folder contains visuals generated by the analysis.ipynb file.

	#Water Quality Project.pptx
		Slides presentation of findings 
        
## Sources
	# Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (https://ephtracking.cdc.gov/DataExplorer/)
	
    # Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates (SAIPE) Program. 
	
    # Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, Decennial Census counts (1990, 2000, 2010, 2020) and population estimates program (2021).
	
    # Source: USDA, Economic Research Service using data from U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, 1970, 1980, 1990, 2000 Censuses of Population, and 2008–12 and 2017–21 American Community Survey 5-year period county-level estimates. Data as of January 24, 2023. For more information contact Austin Sanders.
	
    # Sources: Unemployment: U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS); median household income: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates (SAIPE) Program.

## Project Status
	#Completed

## Contributors
	# Megan Flinders
		#Research, Slides Presentation
	# Kaitlynn Nguyen
		#Research, Slides Presentation
	# Jason L. Napier
		#Research, Jupyter Notebook Files




